---
title: About
tags: [introduction, slipstream, jekyll, scrivener, github-pages]
sticky: true
modified: 2015-04-08
redirect_from: [/about/, /what-is-this/]
summary:
    A brief history of the site so far, with some thoughts and explanations on what it is, <em>why</em> it is, and how it got here.
---

So, what on earth is going on? [fernseed.org](/) began[^fn1] as a place for [me][1] to practice the process of writing and web-publishing short stories. The URL would be known to no-one but myself and the domain name was [a bit of a pun][2].

It was eventually[^fn2] repurposed as a single ongoing experiment in serialising prose fiction with [*The Second Room*][3]---a second-person mystery in the [slipstream][4] genre---forming the sole content. This was an attempt at producing stories for the web in essentially the same manner as a webcomic: open-ended and regularly-updated rather than with a more traditionally predefined scope and conclusion.

More recently[^fn3] the site has expanded to also encompass thoughts on technology, the process of writing and other topics---each just as experimental and prone to outright failure as the fiction.
## Technology & Methodology
Updates are planned in *Scrivener*, written in the *Markdown* plain-text syntax and then automatically converted to HTML by the *Jekyll* static-website generation tool.{% if site.github %} Since 2014 all content has been version controlled using *git* and hosted by *GitHub Pages*. This means that you'll be able to access the complete [source code][5] for the site along with its [change history][6], if you so desire.{% endif %} See the [acknowledgements page][7] for a full list of the tools and technology in use.

Cookies are written for anonymous [analytics][8] purposes only and you may choose to [opt out][9] of their collection.

You may harass the author about these or other matters via [Twitter][1].
[1]: http://twitter.com/dmcgk
[2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fern#Folklore
[3]: /fiction/the-second-room/
[4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slipstream_(genre)
{% if site.github %}
[5]: {{ site.github.repository_url }}
[6]: {{ site.github.repository_url }}/commits/master
{% endif %}
[7]: /meta/acknowledgements/
[8]: https://www.google.com/analytics
[9]: /meta/do-not-track/

[^fn1]: In 2008.

[^fn2]: In 2012.

[^fn3]: Since 2015.
